All right, so let's move on to
probably the final video of this
section where we are going to study
about the two important topic which
is one is a skip, another one is a
break.
So we'll study the first of all
the problem statement and then we're
going to write the code for it.
And then I'll show you one
of the interesting case
of the loop as well.
It's not a part of a subject
as such, but it's a pretty
interesting use case as well.
So notice here it says some
chai flavors are out of stock.
You want to skip those and stop
entirely if someone
requests a restricted flavor.
So the task is skip if flavor
is out of stock and break if
the flavor is discontinued.
Now let's go ahead
and study about them.
First of all, so let's just say
this is your loop that's going on.
So this is your loop.
And in your loop you are constantly
going ahead and trying
to get the values just like this.
This is how the loop work.
Constantly keep on going into it.
Now what this skip and these things
means that let's just say
you are going to go ahead and loop
through it probably five or six
different times just like that.
So we'll just change this up here
a little bit here so
that it actually looks good.
So let's just assume this is five
different times that you're looping.
The first thing that you're going
to study is known as continue.
This is a keyword now the continue.
The whole job of the continue is
to make sure that
whatever the time you're looping,
I'll just skip one of them.
So let's just say this is one of
them and probably we should
have one more of them to make
sure that we are actually going
through with this nicely and we
can actually understand this
part.
So we will put up some
of the checking condition and let's
just say out of these three, this
is the condition which matches.
So as soon as we write
the continue statement, this whole
thing will just go away.
So as we can see, this
will be deleted.
So this part of the loop
will be skipped.
On the other hand, the break
is also another keyword
just like the continue.
But since the continue just breaks,
or kind of allows you to skip one
of the loop while the break allows
you to just completely stop the loop
wherever it has encountered this.
It's much more easier actually
to see in the code part
and realize that what's happening.
I hope you got some of the GIST
at least 20, 30% of it.
But rest you will easily understand
as we go through this one.
So we call this one as
simply 07 underscore.
Not like that, out of order.
Py.
And let's just say we have some
of these orders in front of us.
Let's just say we call them, flavors.
So somebody's asking us for
the flavors of the chai, and we're
going to literally match with them.
So first is ginger.
The second flavor in itself,
we call this as out of stock.
Let's go and say out of stock.
Just like this.
Another one is, lemon.
And just like this, another
one is discontinued.
Discontinued.
And.
And let's just say there is
another one which is Tulsi.
This is also an interesting flavor.
So these are all the flavors that
we have, and right now we want
to loop through all of them.
So simple way of looping
through that is.
Let's call this one as
flavor out of in flavors.
There we go.
So first flavor is a variable.
The second flavors is a list.
So we need to put up a check.
Check always comes up
with the if condition.
And yes, this again gets up.
So we'll just say if the flavor
that we have is discontinued,
so we'll just match it exactly.
First of all, we'll just check
for out of stock, and then we'll
check for the discontinued.
So if the flavor is out of stock,
then we can simply go ahead
and skip that particular loop.
So all you got to do is
in this case, we use
the keyword which is continue.
So we'll just go ahead
and say continue.
Now, here's a small
mistake that we have done.
We forgot the semicolon.
The moment you put up a semicolon,
the continue is going
to give you a problem because we
have an indentation problem.
So make sure you go up here
and hit four spaces or tab,
whatever you want to wish.
Literally in the Python file
automatically VS code will give
you four spaces, just like as
mentioned in the pep as well.
Now we also want to check
for another condition.
So we can just come up here
and check for another one.
If the flavor is equals to.
Let's go ahead and copy this so
that we don't make any typo.
And just like this.
So in this case, we use
a keyword known as break.
Now, after this, we go ahead
and print, whatever
the statement we want to print.
So we'll just go ahead and say
that, hey, I, would love to print
and use a printing method.
And we'll just say this
continued item Foundation.
Now here's a very, very
interesting, part of it.
We can just go ahead and break it
and we'll see what happens in this.
And notice here the indentation.
This is my if statement.
This is outside of the if statement,
but still inside the loop.
And we can have another such
statement, but we can actually
go ahead and move it outside
of the for statement as well.
And we can just print and see
what happens in this.
So I'll just go ahead and remove this
and I'll just say F and we'll just
go ahead and say outside of, loop.
So this is just to make sure that
you understand what is happening
and we'll definitely add a little
bit more to it that how it goes
and how it works and everything.
Let's just go ahead and run this.
You will learn quite a lot,
although it looks a little bit
confusing, but bear with me.
You will learn a lot
in this video itself.
So let's just go
ahead and run and 07.
There we go.
Notice here it says
discontinued item found.
Then again, discontinued item found.
And then we are simply
outside of the loop.
This is interesting that.
Why did this happen?
Why did.
We got, this one being
printed two times.
So the first time it actually looped
through, it found ginger and then
it went to the out of stock.
So the out of stock ginger, one
went, all the way through it.
We didn't do any printing
of the ginger or anything, but.
But as you will notice, this was
printed at the time of ginger.
Then as we simply move to the out
of stock, it simply says, hey,
I don't want to do anything.
So out of stock simply came up here.
And as soon as it saw the continue,
it didn't worked out there.
It would be rather interesting if
we go ahead and also print out.
Let's go ahead and print
this, statement
because this is interesting.
Instead of saying discontinued
out term, find, go ahead and remove
this, add this one, and say
we want to print the flavor.
Can we print the flavor?
Much more interesting stuff.
All right, let's go
ahead and print this.
So it says first time
the ginger item was found.
All right, no problem there.
Ginger item was found.
Then it found the out of stock.
So as soon as it finds the out
of stock, it says continue.
That means I will not
continue the loop.
I'll skip right from here.
So nothing was printed.
Then it says lemon.
So lemon was printed here.
And then, it didn't
match this condition.
It didn't match this condition.
So it printed out.
Then we Simply got interacted
with the discontinued.
So as soon as you interact
with the discontinued,
the break statement hits.
That means the whole of the loop is
not going to run outside of this.
So you got only till the lemon.
After that nothing prints.
This guy never got a chance
to be printed.
And as soon as we got out of this we
simply go ahead and say that, hey,
I am printing outside of the loop.
This understanding of indentation
is pretty important and we
really, really need that.
Now apart from this, you could have
done something like this, that
hey, before we break this, we want
to print this and obviously we
need to work on indentation.
So there we go.
Now the output will be
drastically different.
So if I go ahead and run this notice
here, Discontinued item found.
And we simply say
outside of the loop.
Because this time we don't
have anything to be printed out in
in just the loop.
We just are checking
for the two condition.
First one for out of stock,
second one for the discontinued.
So the only item that gets printed
is discontinued because only
then you move inside this loop.
So that's why we see
discontinued outem found.
And then we simply have the item,
outside of this being found.
We can do one more thing, one
more very interesting thing.
I can just go ahead and have
a duplicate of this.
I'll print this up and notice
here I'm printing it outside.
So this is if block.
This again is if block.
But this is a loop block.
Notice here it's inside the loop.
So the ability to understand
what's happening and how is it
happening is actually very,
very interesting and important
in the world of Python.
I'll print this notice here.
Ginger, item found.
Lemon, item found Discontinued
Block also got executed outside.
After that nothing gets executed.
So this one gets out.
So this is the most important part
that you learn and understand deeply
about the continue break and how
the structure of the loop work.
Now I have another such example
and that will be interesting.
I thought to keep it as a separate
video, but I'll just
introduce you within this video.
So this is 08 and we're going
to call this one as for else.
Yes, there is a such thing
as known as for else.
Now look at this very interesting
example that we have.
So I'll just go ahead
and call this one as staff.
So we have some of the staff
members which is a list.
Inside the list we have tuples.
So first of all we have Amit
and we also store the age of them.
So let's just say 16.
And we have another staff
which is also a Tuple.
So I'll just go ahead and say Zara
and the staff age probably 17.
And then we have another tuple
and let's just say we call
this as Raj, fictitious name.
No, no matter there.
And we simply go
ahead and work on 15.
Now we have the tuple, we
have name as well as age.
Can we loop through them?
For sure.
We can just go ahead and say
name age, because that's what
we are about to return.
And we'll simply say
this in the staff.
Now I don't want to use it like that.
I only want to print when
the age is above 18.
Hey Hitesh, what are you saying?
Nobody's age is above 18.
That's exactly my point.
So I can just go ahead
and write it like this.
If age is greater than or equal
to 18, then only we are
doing the hiring or we are
printing some message.
In this case we are simply go ahead
and simply use the print just like
this and formatted string and we
will say name is eligible for.
Eligible to manage the staff.
Manage the staff or hiring,
whatever you want to call this.
All right, now once this is all
done, we simply want to go ahead
and hit the break as well.
Now here's the most interesting part.
We will go ahead and simply say else.
That's interesting.
Yes, just in the indentation level
of where the for loop is.
And I can go ahead and print
the value just like this
and can have a probably a formatted
string however you like that.
No one is eligible
to manage the stuff.
This is one of the most interesting
case and interesting style
of writing the Python code.
I'll run this one and we will call
this1as08 and run this notice here.
It says no one is eligible
for managing the staff.
But let's go ahead and reverse
the rule we are looking up
for less than eight should be
less than or again use this.
So age should be less than
or equal to 18.
So all of them are now part of it.
Now here's the interesting part.
What will be printed?
That's the most
interesting part of it.
Notice here Amit is eligible, so
the very first guy is eligible.
And after that we are
just breaking this.
So we are not running
the loop anymore.
Whoever the first guy comes
up and meets the criteria,
we're just simply saying that
you are eligible for it.
But notice here the else
statement doesn't print.
And this is one of the strangest
behavior that where the else
statement is used or could
be used, the indentation is not
in the if statement.
This is not a part of if statement.
This is a part of a For statement.
So this is one of the most
interesting way the else block only
runs if the loop didn't break.
Use it when you are searching
for something, it's not found.
It's kind of a execution
of the fallback logic.
So call this one as
a fallback one here.
Pretty interesting.
You will see this quite a lot,
but only in the in depth series,
just like we are doing here.
That is it for this video.
Hope you enjoyed this one.
It was a pretty interesting video
altogether and hope you have
learned in that and that is it all
about the loops in Python.
That is it for this video.
And let's catch up in the next one.